Add tutorial project 22-23' (#1901)
RoboJackets/robocup-software: docs/source/tutorial.rst

 * When our team color is blue, publish "blueberries" to `/team_fruit`.

Often in C++ you'll see the use of a header file, which ends in `.hpp`, and a
source file, which ends in `.cpp`. Header files contain all the function
declarations and docstrings explaining their use. Source files contain the
function definitions--that is, the code that actually makes the functions work.
This allows for many files to share access to the same methods or classes
without copy-pasting their entire implementation by importing the right header
files. For more information, check `this
<https://cplusplus.com/articles/Gw6AC542/>`_ resource.

Let's take a look at a real example in our codebase to make this more
understandable. Find the radio.cpp and radio.hpp files in our codebase. In the
last section, you used ``rqt`` to launch the Node Graph. One of the nodes that
subscribe and publish to various topics is ``/radio``, and these files are the
source of that node. Although looking at this file may be overwhelming, direct
your attention to the key sections of the file that create the node. This will
assist you in creating your own node.

**Key Sections**

> * There are multiple `#include`s in both files. Reference between the ROS

Author: ```suggestion
* There are multiple ``#include``s in both files. Reference between the ROS
```

  the following expression:

.. code-block::

   create_subscription<rj_msgs::msg::ManipulatorSetpoint>(
            control::topics::manipulator_setpoint_pub(i), rclcpp::QoS(1), [this,
            i](rj_msgs::msg::ManipulatorSetpoint::SharedPtr manipulator) {  //
            NOLINT
                manipulators_cached_.at(i) = *manipulator;
            });

A ``lambda expression`` is used in place of the topic callback function in the
ROS tutorial. The lambda expression allows you to pass in-line function objects
and requires less lines of code when compared to having another function. I
HIGHLY recommend that you google and visit the following resources to learn more
about this topic.

    - `<https://www.programiz.com/cpp-programming/lambda-expression>`_
    - `<https://riptutorial.com/cplusplus/example/1854/what-is-a-lambda-expression->`_

Another topic you may not be accustomed to is the arrow operation "->". For
example:

.. code-block::

   robot_status_pubs_.at(robot_id)->publish(robot_status);

The arrow operator is used to access a method or element of an object, when
given a pointer to that object. Above, ``robot_status_pubs_`` is a list of

> pointers to ROS publisher objects. Calling `->publish(robot_status)` on one

Author: ```suggestion
pointers to ROS publisher objects. Calling ``->publish(robot_status)`` on one
```

element in that list publishes a robot status using that specific publisher.

>     - `<https://www.tutorialspoint.com/cplusplus/cpp_member_operators.htm#:~:text=The%20(%2D%3E)%20arrow%20operator&text=The%20%2D%3E%20is%20called%20the%20arrow,pointer%2C%20use%20the%20arrow%20operator>`

Author: this link is really ugly, can you make it inline (like "see [this source](url)")

Reviewer: hyperlink broke :(, but yea i'll fix it

* Notice the docstrings for the radio header file. It explains that it's the
  abstract superclass of the network_radio and sim_radio node. If you are
  unfamiliar with the concept of abstraction, `here
  <https://www.pythontutorial.net/python-oop/python-abstract-class/>`_ is more
  information. When exploring these two nodes, you will discover a third file

>   named "node"_main.cpp which contains the main function for its respective

Author: ```suggestion
  named <node>_main.cpp which contains the main function for its respective
```
this is the standard way to show that the text given is not literal, just a filler

  node. This structure is intended to make writing the CMakeLists.txt file for
  the directory easier.

While those files give you a peek into structuring your node files, they don't
give you insight into how our build system works. When your compiler is building
our code base, `CMake <https://cmake.org/overview/>`_ allows you to forgo the
need to maintain settings specific to your compiler/build environment. As a
result, you need to add your node to the appropriate CMake files.

CMakeLists.txt files are used to make standard build files for the directory. It
locates files, libraries, and executables to support complex directory
hierarchies. Locate the CMakeLists.txt file in
``robocup-software/soccer/src/soccer``.

**Key Sections**

* Notice all the source files in the ``ROBOCUP_LIB_SRC``. You will find the
  radio files that you explored earlier along with other crucial source files
  that aid in motion control, soccer ui, etc. You will get familiar with these
  files as you continue to contribute to the codebase.

> * Many of the nodes have an environment variable set for their "node"_main.cpp.

Author: ```suggestion
* Many of the nodes have an environment variable set for their <node>_main.cpp.
```

  (HINT: There is a connection between the nodes that have these variables and
  the nodes that are returned by the ROS CLI)
* Each of the nodes that have a source variable are added in the CMake file as
  `target_sources`

You may have started noticing the pattern of adding to the key sections of the
CMake files. You need to find the parts of the file where the other nodes are

> located and follow the format for your own node. While it is important to

Author: ```suggestion
located and follow the format for your own node. For now, it's okay if you don't understand everything that's going on.
```
sorry this probably ruins the wrapping

> understand the meaning of each section, you will eventually learn as you gain

Author: ```suggestion
You will eventually learn as you gain
```

become obvious after looking at the list of topics). To "pick a fruit", publish
a `standard string msg
<http://docs.ros.org/en/noetic/api/std_msgs/html/msg/String.html>`_ to a new
topic `/team_fruit`.
 * When our team color is yellow, publish "banana" to `/team_fruit`.
 * When our team color is blue, publish "blueberries" to `/team_fruit`.

Often in C++ you'll see the use of a header file, which ends in `.hpp`, and a
source file, which ends in `.cpp`. Header files contain all the function
declarations and docstrings explaining their use. Source files contain the
function definitions--that is, the code that actually makes the functions work.
This allows for many files to share access to the same methods or classes
without copy-pasting their entire implementation by importing the right header
files. For more information, check `this <https://cplusplus.com/articles/Gw6AC542/>`_ resource.

> That may have confused you. Let's take a look at a real example in our codebase

Author: ```suggestion
Let's take a look at a real example in our codebase
```
I know I wrote this line but I think it's wordy on a second glance

to make this more understandable. Find the radio.cpp and radio.hpp files in our codebase. In the last section, you used ``rqt`` to launch the Node Graph. One of the nodes that subscribe and publish to various topics is ``/radio``, and these files are the source of that node. Although looking at this file may be overwhelming, direct your attention to the key sections of the file that create the node. This will assist you in creating your own node.

**Key Sections**

> * There are multiple `#include`s in both files. Reference between the ROS tutorial above and your objective to determine which files are needed for your node.

Author: ```suggestion
* There are multiple ``#include``s in both files. Think of these as equivalent to `import` in Python or Java. Reference between the ROS tutorial above and your objective to determine which files are needed for your node.
```

Author: @p-nayak11 honestly I don't find it necessary for the new members to figure this out on their own, how do you feel about just giving them all the right includes, namespace and maybe an empty class? I worry that it may be frustrating to learn C++ syntax

* Both files are enclosed under `namespace`. Look at other header-source file pairs in ``robocup-software/soccer/src`` and determine what affects the namespace. Set this up for your SoccerMom node under a folder called tutorial.
* The header file includes important information regarding class structure and inheritance (inheritance is important since the each node inherits from the rclcpp::Node class). Moreover, it has a call to the source constructor in the public access space.
* Explore all the aspects of these files that applies to your task in this section. Compare the similarities and differences between the subscribers and publishers in these files vs. the ROS tutorial.
* You will notice many unique operations and expressions in our codebase that you might not have experience with. For instance in the radio.cpp file, find the following expression:

.. code-block::

   create_subscription<rj_msgs::msg::ManipulatorSetpoint>(
            control::topics::manipulator_setpoint_pub(i), rclcpp::QoS(1),
            [this, i](rj_msgs::msg::ManipulatorSetpoint::SharedPtr manipulator) {  // NOLINT
                manipulators_cached_.at(i) = *manipulator;
            });

> A `lambda expression` is used in place of the topic callback function in the ROS tutorial. The lambda expression allows you to pass in-line function objects and requires less lines of code when compared to having another function. I HIGHLY recommend that you google and visit the following resources to learn more about this topic.

Author: ```suggestion
A ``lambda expression`` is used in place of the topic callback function in the ROS tutorial. The lambda expression allows you to pass in-line function objects and requires less lines of code when compared to having another function. I HIGHLY recommend that you google and visit the following resources to learn more about this topic.
```

    - `<https://www.programiz.com/cpp-programming/lambda-expression>`_
    - `<https://riptutorial.com/cplusplus/example/1854/what-is-a-lambda-expression->`_

Another topic you may not be accustomed to is the arrow operation "->". For example:

.. code-block::

   robot_status_pubs_.at(robot_id)->publish(robot_status);

> The arrow operator is used to point the value on the right side of the arrow, usually an element of a structure or class, and assign it to the variable pointer name on the left side of arrow. Again, I HIGHLY recommend that you google and visit the following resources to learn more about this topic.

Author: ```suggestion
The arrow operator is used to access a method or element of an object, when given a pointer to that object. Above, ``robot_status_pubs_`` is a list of pointers to ROS publisher objects. Calling `->publish(robot_status)` on one element in that list publishes a robot status using that specific publisher. 

You will learn about pointers when you take CS 2110. For now, you can use the typical dot operator (e.g. ``robot_status_pubs_.at(0).publish(...)``) and the compiler will tell you when you should use the arrow operator instead. If you would like to learn more now, see `this source <https://www.tutorialspoint.com/cplusplus/cpp_member_operators.htm#:~:text=The%20(%2D%3E)%20arrow%20operator&text=The%20%2D%3E%20is%20called%20the%20arrow,pointer%2C%20use%20the%20arrow%20operator.>`_.
```

>     - `<https://www.journaldev.com/44327/arrow-operator-c-plus-plus>`_

Author: honestly I think these links suck and this one explains it better: https://www.tutorialspoint.com/cplusplus/cpp_member_operators.htm#:~:text=The%20(%2D%3E)%20arrow%20operator&text=The%20%2D%3E%20is%20called%20the%20arrow,pointer%2C%20use%20the%20arrow%20operator.

Author: see above suggestion, I disagree with your description of ->

    - `<https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/arrow-operator-in-c-c-with-examples/>`_

> * Notice the docstrings for the radio header file. It explains that it's the abstract superclass of the network_radio and sim_radio node. If you are unfamiliar with the concept of abstraction, `here <https://www.pythontutorial.net/python-oop/python-abstract-class/>` is more information. When exploring these two nodes, you will discover a third file named "node"_main.cpp which contains the main function for its respective node. This structure is intended to make writing the CMakeLists.txt file for the directory easier.

Author: ```suggestion
* Notice the docstrings for the radio header file. It explains that it's the abstract superclass of the network_radio and sim_radio node. If you are unfamiliar with the concept of abstraction, `here <https://www.pythontutorial.net/python-oop/python-abstract-class/>`_ is more information. When exploring these two nodes, you will discover a third file named "node"_main.cpp which contains the main function for its respective node. This structure is intended to make writing the CMakeLists.txt file for the directory easier.
```
link not formatted right

While those files give you a peek into structuring your node files, they don't give you insight into how our build system works. When your compiler is building our code base, `CMake <https://cmake.org/overview/>`_ allows you to forgo the need to maintain settings specific to your compiler/build environment. As a result, you need to add your node to the appropriate CMake files.

CMakeLists.txt files are used to make standard build files for the directory. It locates files, libraries, and executables to support complex directory hierarchies. Locate the CMakeLists.txt file in ``robocup-software/soccer/src/soccer``.

**Key Sections**

> * Notice all the source files in the ``ROBOCUP_LIB_SRC``. You will find the radio files that you explored earlier along with other crucial source files that aid in motion control, soccer ui, etc. You will get familiar with these files as you continue to contribute to the codebase.

Author: again I think it may be best to lower the difficulty by giving them exact lines to put into CMake files, we're trying to get them to interface with ROS pub/sub and maybe pick up on some C++ syntax, not learn our whole build system (which I don't even really know)

* Many of the nodes have an environment variable set for their "node"_main.cpp. (HINT: There is a connection between the nodes that have these variables and the nodes that are returned by the ROS CLI)
* Each of the nodes that have a source variable are added in the CMake file as `target_sources`

You may have started noticing the pattern of adding to the key sections of the CMake files. You need to find the parts of the file where the other nodes are located and follow the format for your own node. While it is important to understand the meaning of each section, you will eventually learn as you gain experience. As explained earlier, CMake files are build files for the directory. So check if you need to make additions to the ``robocup-software/soccer/src`` and ``robocup-software/soccer`` CMake files. Follow the pattern mentioned above.

> You're almost there! One more step to go before acquiring all the necessities to create your own node. Launch files in ROS are a convenient way of starting up multiple nodes, setting initial parameters, and other requirements. Find the launch directory and explore the file that would pertain to where your node would be located. As you already know, follow the pattern for the other nodes that are functionally similar to your node.

Author: ```suggestion
You're almost there! One final file you have to create is a launch file. Launch files in ROS are a convenient way of starting up multiple nodes, setting initial parameters, and other requirements. Find the launch directory and explore the file that would pertain to where your node would be located. As you already know, follow the pattern for the other nodes that are functionally similar to your node.
```
which launch directory? specific file path would make this easier

Author: and or specific nodes to look at launch files for

Reviewer: I will add where the launch files are located and guide them to the particular file. However, telling them which node to copy the format for is unnecessary because most of the nodes follow the same format. Common sense would tell them to follow what most of the nodes do.

Now you have everything you need to know to create the SoccerMom node. Take your time since this is the other code heavy section of this tutorial. Remember, when you run into issues, your order of question-asking should be:

#. Google

#. Fellow new members

#. Software lead

#. Anyone the SW lead takes advice from

.. note::

   Since you have made changes to the C++ part of our codebase, you must build it again to test your node. This may take a while, so be patient and proactive with your changes. If you forgot how to build the codebase, go to the Getting Started page.

To test, change our team color using the UI by going to the top menu bar and
clicking Field > Team Color. You should see the team color change in the top
right corner of our UI. Screenshot proof that your `/team_fruit` topic is
publishing the right fruit for both options, and post as a comment to your PR.

Similar to the python section, there's a lot of file-finding in this part. Use the option in your IDE or text editor that allows you to see a full folder at once. For instance, in VS Code, there is an option to open a full folder, which
displays all the subfolders and files in the left toolbar. If you open

> ``robocup-software/rj_gameplay`` like this, it should be a lot easier to

Author: rj_gameplay?
